TitanHacks2020

Youtube Demonstration: https://youtu.be/KDF-NUVtuoA

We are highschoolers who are all drastically affected by the COVID-19 with the new virtual schooling method which has taken part in our lives (in fact, some of us are seniors who may be unfortunately missing prom and graduation). Nevertheless, to not take action in helping others during these times of crisis would not portray our true character. As a team, our goal in the start which has resonated with us throughout the hackathon was that no matter what, we just wanted to make a change. Whether that be small, big, medium, as long as someone's life could be protected with our handy application, we would be happy. So, we created the Safe Place web app that uses hardware and software to make shopping during COVID-19 safer and more efficient. Our Raspberry Pi hardware uses computer vision to track people entering and leaving through a door. It then feeds that information to our two front end software (web app and Discord chatbot). There front end softwares display a variety of information, the key one being the danger rating of the store (chances of getting Corona) which is calculated using the formula 10-3-(square feet/number of people*3.14/1000). Ultimately, our mission is for you to feel safe during these times of distress.

Our process for creating this project was extremely long and gruesome. First, we applied the Raspberry Pi 4, its Camera Module, and OpenCV to create a low-budget potential solution to the CDC’s recommended social distancing. By using a people-counting tracking system that can detect the number of people going into and out of a doorway, we are able to track how many people enter into a particular area. By recording the square footage of the building, we are then able to calculate the safety rating of the store, which basically says how far apart people are. Next, we linked that Raspberry Pi to a firestore that collected information about how many people are in the building, name of the building, location of the building, time and the square footage of the place. By using our web app, users can see the locations we are measuring on them around the map, and can check, based on our ranking system, which places are currently safe to go to and which ones are not. If a web app was not enough, we also created another piece of software, a Discord chat-bot, which provides another user-friendly front-end to our database’s information. We faced many challenges with our computer vision, which ultimately remained limited to the physical space of our Raspberry Pi hacker Justin. While our computer vision can successfully track people entering and leaving in a pre-recorded video, an appropriate viewing angle could not be achieved in-home, but we were are able to clearly demonstrate that the Pi Camera Module can be used, and that it does track humanoid objects like a LEGO figure. Furthermore, we had great difficulty coordinating the back-end server from Firebase with both the Raspberry Pi and the two front-ends. In addition, while creating the web app, one of the main difficulties was that we did not know how to add markers to the google maps that displayed all of the relevant real time firebase information. However, eventually, through a bunch of stack-exchange browsing, some old YouTube videos, and most importantly, sheer persistence to keep trying different solutions as a team, we were finally able to figure out the answers to these obstacles. Subsequently, whether we win or lose this competition, we sure learned a ton and had a load of fun, working and collaborating together.

Here are the slides that we created which covers what our project is about: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1aMMf4NjnXAXpPu1DIpjDcWKL5gj1YhzZKmU614U9PHA/edit#slide=id.g734a7d9472_1_0
